README.md, before:

# Ngspot

<p style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
  <img src="./logo.png" width="200">
  <span style="font-size: larger;">A collection of Angular packages.</span>
</p>

## Packages

- [@ngspot/expandable-input](https://github.com/DmitryEfimenko/ngspot/tree/main/packages/expandable-input/package) ([Demo](https://dmitryefimenko.github.io/ngspot/expandable-input))
- [@ngspot/ngx-errors](toMoveInThisRepo)
- [@ngspot/remote-data](https://github.com/DmitryEfimenko/ngspot/tree/main/packages/remote-data)
- [@ngspot/remote-data-rx](https://github.com/DmitryEfimenko/ngspot/tree/main/packages/remote-data-rx)
- [@ngspot/ng-superclass](https://github.com/DmitryEfimenko/ngspot/tree/main/packages/ng-superclass)

## Development

This project was generated using [Nx](https://nx.dev).

### Basic Workflow

One time config: `git config --global push.followTags true`

> `<project>` in the commands below is a string found in `workspace.json` file

1. Switch to a feature branch: `git checkout -b feat/myfeature`
1. Develop
1. Write tests
1. Run `npm run test`
1. Run `git add ./packages/<project-dir>`
1. Run `npm run c` and choose fix or feature
1. Run `npm run nx -- -- version <project> --dryRun true`. If releasing for the first time, consider adding an override flag at the end of the command: `--releaseAs=major` (or `minor`, or `patch`)
1. Make sure that CHANGELOG looks right and run the command without --dryRun option
1. Run `npm run nx -- -- build <project>`
1. Push feature branch, create a PR and have it merged: `git push`
1. Switch to main branch: `git checkout main`
1. Run `npm run nx -- -- publish <project> --tag=latest [--verbose=true]`
1. Repeat for each `<package-worked-on>`

## Generate a publishable library

### Generate JS lib

```
nx g @nrwl/js:lib my-lib --publishable --importPath="@ngspot/my-lib"
```

### Generate NG lib

[Docs](https://nx.dev/packages/angular/generators/library)

```
nx g @nrwl/angular:library [optional-scope/]my-lib --publishable --importPath="@ngspot/my-lib" --changeDetection="OnPush" --prefix="ngs" --standalone --style="scss"
```

After the lib is generated:

- if publishable lib was created, update `project.json` file and add `targets`: `publish` and `version`. See `project.json` file from the existing libs as example.
- add `CHANGELOG.md` file

> You can also use any of the plugins above to generate libraries as well.

Libraries are shareable across libraries and applications. They can be imported from `@ngspot/mylib`.

## To add a new library via schematic

Example with `@angular/material`. Instead of running `ng add @angular/material`, do the following:

```
npm i @angular/material [-D]
npm run nx -- g @angular/material:ng-add --project=demo
```

## Development server

Run `nx serve my-app` for a dev server. Navigate to http://localhost:4200/. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Build

Run `nx build my-lib` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Running unit tests

Run `nx test my-lib` to execute the unit tests via [Jest](https://jestjs.io).

Run `nx affected:test` to execute the unit tests affected by a change.

## Running end-to-end tests

Run `nx e2e my-app` to execute the end-to-end tests via [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io).

Run `nx affected:e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests affected by a change.

## Understand your workspace

Run `nx graph` to see a diagram of the dependencies of your projects.

## Further help

Visit the [Nx Documentation](https://nx.dev) to learn more.

## ☁ Nx Cloud

### Distributed Computation Caching & Distributed Task Execution

Nx Cloud pairs with Nx in order to enable you to build and test code more rapidly, by up to 10 times. Even teams that are new to Nx can connect to Nx Cloud and start saving time instantly.

Teams using Nx gain the advantage of building full-stack applications with their preferred framework alongside Nx’s advanced code generation and project dependency graph, plus a unified experience for both frontend and backend developers.

Visit [Nx Cloud](https://nx.app/) to learn more.

Commit message:

feat(ng-superclass): 🔥 improve FormComponentSuperclass (#13)
`FormComponentSuperclass` is now capable of forwarding outer control to the
internal control. For more complex use cases, it provides `viewModel`.
Support for built-in validation

BREAKING CHANGE: 🧨

* Removed `WrappedFormControlSuperclass` and `WrappedFormControlSuperclass`.
* Changes in `FormComponentSuperclass`:
  * `emitOutgoingValue` method is now private. To sync the inner state to the outer, use `this.viewModel.setValue()` method. For more info, see README.md

README.md, after:

# Ngspot

<p style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
  <img src="./logo.png" width="200">
  <span style="font-size: larger;">A collection of Angular packages.</span>
</p>

## Packages

- [@ngspot/expandable-input](https://github.com/DmitryEfimenko/ngspot/tree/main/packages/expandable-input/package) ([Demo](https://dmitryefimenko.github.io/ngspot/expandable-input))
- [@ngspot/ngx-errors](toMoveInThisRepo)
- [@ngspot/remote-data](https://github.com/DmitryEfimenko/ngspot/tree/main/packages/remote-data)
- [@ngspot/remote-data-rx](https://github.com/DmitryEfimenko/ngspot/tree/main/packages/remote-data-rx)
- [@ngspot/ng-superclass](https://github.com/DmitryEfimenko/ngspot/tree/main/packages/ng-superclass)

## Development

This project was generated using [Nx](https://nx.dev).

### Basic Workflow

One time config: `git config --global push.followTags true`

> `<project>` in the commands below is a value of the `name` property found in `project.json` file of each project in this monorepo.

#### **[For contributor]** Contribute a feature

1. Switch to a feature branch: `git checkout -b feat/myfeature`
1. Develop
1. Write tests
1. Run `npm run test`
1. Run `git add ./packages/<project-dir>`
1. Run `npm run c` and choose fix or feature
1. Push feature branch, create a PR and have it merged: `git push`
   - Make sure that your PR contains only changes for a single \<project\>.  
     If related changes were made in a different \<project\>, create a separate PR with these changes.

#### **[For maintainer]** Release a new version

1. Switch to main branch: `git checkout main`
1. Make sure you have latest: `git pull` and `npm install`
1. Run `npm run nx -- -- version <project> --dryRun true`. If releasing for the first time, consider adding an override flag at the end of the command: `--releaseAs=major` (or `minor`, or `patch`)
1. Make sure that CHANGELOG looks right and run the command above without `--dryRun ` option
1. Run `npm run nx -- -- build <project>`
1. Run `npm run nx -- -- publish <project> --tag=latest [--verbose=true]`
1. Repeat for each `<package-worked-on>`

## Generate a publishable library

### Generate JS lib

```
nx g @nrwl/js:lib my-lib --publishable --importPath="@ngspot/my-lib"
```

### Generate NG lib

[Docs](https://nx.dev/packages/angular/generators/library)

```
nx g @nrwl/angular:library [optional-scope/]my-lib --publishable --importPath="@ngspot/my-lib" --changeDetection="OnPush" --prefix="ngs" --standalone --style="scss"
```

After the lib is generated:

- if publishable lib was created, update `project.json` file and add `targets`: `publish` and `version`. See `project.json` file from the existing libs as example.
- add `CHANGELOG.md` file

> You can also use any of the plugins above to generate libraries as well.

Libraries are shareable across libraries and applications. They can be imported from `@ngspot/mylib`.

#### Example command creating a demo project:

```
nx g @nrwl/angular:library ng-superclass/demo --importPath="@ngspot/ng-superclass-demo" --changeDetection="OnPush" --prefix="ngs" --standalone --style="scss"
```

## To add a new library via schematic

Example with `@angular/material`. Instead of running `ng add @angular/material`, do the following:

```
npm i @angular/material [-D]
npm run nx -- g @angular/material:ng-add --project=demo
```

## Development server

Run `nx serve my-app` for a dev server. Navigate to http://localhost:4200/. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Build

Run `nx build my-lib` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Running unit tests

Run `nx test my-lib` to execute the unit tests via [Jest](https://jestjs.io).

Run `nx affected:test` to execute the unit tests affected by a change.

## Running end-to-end tests

Run `nx e2e my-app` to execute the end-to-end tests via [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io).

Run `nx affected:e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests affected by a change.

## Understand your workspace

Run `nx graph` to see a diagram of the dependencies of your projects.

## Further help

Visit the [Nx Documentation](https://nx.dev) to learn more.

## ☁ Nx Cloud

### Distributed Computation Caching & Distributed Task Execution

Nx Cloud pairs with Nx in order to enable you to build and test code more rapidly, by up to 10 times. Even teams that are new to Nx can connect to Nx Cloud and start saving time instantly.

Teams using Nx gain the advantage of building full-stack applications with their preferred framework alongside Nx’s advanced code generation and project dependency graph, plus a unified experience for both frontend and backend developers.

Visit [Nx Cloud](https://nx.app/) to learn more.
